Blazor webassembly example (#51)
DevExpress/XPO: Tutorials/ASP.NET/Blazor.Client/README.MD

## Overview

> This tutorial demonstrates how to create a client-side Blazor application that uses the DevExpress ORM Library (XPO) to access and manage data. In this tutorial, we use an [intermediate Web API service](../../WebApi) to communicate with the database.

Reviewer: "This tutorial demonstrates how to" How can a tutorial demonstrate something? A demo or video demonstrates something. A tutorial contains instructions or information.

Reviewer: Yes

<p align="center">
  <img width="562" src="/Tutorials/images/Blazor.ClientSide/1.1.png">
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img width="800" src="/Tutorials/images/Blazor.ClientSide/1.2.png">
</p>

## Prerequisites

* [Visual Studio 2019 16.4.5 or later](https://visualstudio.com/) with the following workloads:
  * **ASP.NET and web development**
  * **.NET Core cross-platform development**
* [.NET Core 5.0 SDK or later](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/all)
* [DevExpress UI Components for Blazor](https://www.devexpress.com/blazor/)

This app uses the [WebAssembly hosting model](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/hosting-models?view=aspnetcore-5.0#blazor-webassembly).

## Step 1: Create a Blazor (Server-Side) Web App

1. Open Visual Studio and create a new project.
2. Find and select the **Blazor App** template. Click **Next** to proceed.

> 3. Set the project name and click **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Specify the project name and click **Create**.
```

4. Select **.NET 5.0** and **Blazor WebAssembly App** and click **Create**.

## Step 2: Add the XPO Package

Use any of the following approaches to install the XPO package:

**Package Manager Console**

>   * From the Visual Studio **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager > Package Manager Console**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * From Visual Studio's **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager > Package Manager Console**.
```

  * Make sure **Package source** is set to **All**, **nuget.org** or **DevExpress 20.2 Local** and run the following command: 
     ```console
    Install-Package DevExpress.Xpo -Version 20.2
    ```

**NuGet Package Manager**

>   * In **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project name and select **Manage NuGet Packages**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * In the **Solution Explorer**, right-click the project name and select **Manage NuGet Packages**.
```

  * Make sure **Package source** is set to **All**, **nuget.org** or **DevExpress 20.2 Local** on the right.

>   * In the top left corner under **Browse**, search for the `DevExpress.Xpo` package and select the latest version, v20.2, on the right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * In the top left corner under **Browse**, search for the `DevExpress.Xpo` package and select the latest version (v20.2) on the right.
```

  * Click **Install** and accept all licenses in the **License Acceptance** dialogs. 

For more information, see the following:

  * https://www.nuget.org/
  * https://nuget.devexpress.com/

## Step 3: Create ORM Data Model

> Refer to the following help topic to learn how to accomplish this task: [Create a Data Model](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/401951/create-a-data-model).

Reviewer: - "to learn how to" You do not learn something - a topic contains instructions or information
- "to accomplish this task" Which task?

Reviewer: Or you can say:  
Refer to the following help for instructions how to accomplish this task: [Create a Data Model](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/401951/create-a-data-model).

Refer to the following help topic for instructions on how to use XPO to create a database: [Create a Data Model](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/401951/create-a-data-model).

> If you want to connect ORM Data Model to an existing database, use the [Data Model Wizard](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/14810/design-time-features/data-model-wizard) to generate XPO classes.

Reviewer: "ORM Data Model" an? the?

For more information, see the following:

  * [Object Relational Mapping](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/2017/feature-center/object-relational-mapping)
  * [Persisting Objects](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/2025/feature-center/data-exchange-and-manipulation/persisting-objects)

## Step 5: Configure Database Connection

1. If you created an ASP.NET Core hosted application, configure the database connection and add controllers in the service project as described here: [How to create an ASP.NET Core Web API Data Store service](/Tutorials/ASP.NET/WebApi/). Otherwise, add [WebApiApplication](/Tutorials/ASP.NET/WebApi/CS) project to your solution and modify the connection settings in the Startup.cs file.

> 2. In the client app, open the Program.cs file, and add the following code to the Main method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the client app, open the Program.cs file and add the following code to the Main method:
```

    ```csharp
    builder.Services.AddXpoDefaultUnitOfWork(true, options =>
      options.UseConnectionString(WebApiDataStoreClient.GetConnectionString("https://localhost:44307/xpo/"))
      .UseConnectionPool(false)
      .UseThreadSafeDataLayer(false)
      .UseEntityTypes(typeof(Customer), typeof(Order)));
    ```

> For more information, see the following:

Reviewer: "see the following" The following what? Tutorial? Topic?

[ASP.NET Core Dependency Injection in XPO](https://supportcenter.devexpress.com/ticket/details/t637597)

## Step 6: Add views and implement data access methods

1. Use the @inject directive to add [UnitOfWork](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/DevExpress.Xpo.UnitOfWork) to a view.
2. Use [LINQ to XPO](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/4060/query-and-shape-data/linq-to-xpo) to build a data query.
3. Use the [ToListAsync](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/DevExpress.Xpo.XPQueryExtensions.ToListAsync--1(System.Linq.IQueryable---0--System.Threading.CancellationToken)) extension method to execute a query.
4. Use the [UnitOfWork.GetObjectByKeyAsync](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/DevExpress.Xpo.Session.GetObjectByKeyAsync.overloads) method to retrieve a single object.
5. Use the [UnitOfWork.CommitChangesAsync](https://docs.devexpress.com/XPO/DevExpress.Xpo.UnitOfWork.CommitChangesAsync.overloads) method to save changes.

> For implementation details, see files in the following folder: [Blazor.Client/Pages](/Tutorials/ASP.NET/Blazor.Client/CS/Pages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information about implementation, refer to the files in the following folder: [Blazor.Client/Pages](/Tutorials/ASP.NET/Blazor.Client/CS/Pages).
```

> PS: In this example, we used [DevExpress UI components for Blazor](https://demos.devexpress.com/blazor/). Refer to the following help topic to learn how to install the DevExpress.Blazor package: [Get Started > Create an Application](https://docs.devexpress.com/Blazor/401057/getting-started/create-an-application).

Reviewer: Why do you use "PS:"?

Reviewer: "to learn how to" Topics do not teach you something - they contain instructions or information
